and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm excited to be joined by
nemanja
sikkovich today nevanja a very well
welcome to the show
how are you doing hey sam uh i'm doing
doing well having in mind that i'm in
the
nine days of kobe recovering so i'm
doing well and using this time to
chat like uh nice nice guys like
yourself
appreciate it dude and i've realized
i've not given your intro so for anyone
who does know nemanja he's a ceo
over at funky marketing a company that
creates demand generation programs
primarily for fast growing b2b tech
companies and helps them to constantly
generate revenue
with inbound and content strategies at
scale
so nemanja we're not going to mess
around we're not going to be around the
bush there's no fluff talk today we're
going to be talking about how
companies can shorten their sales cycle
and increase their revenue
so i'm excited to talk about this
because this is pretty much what every
company wants to do right
um so this is kind of a loaded loaded
question but first and foremost why is
this important to businesses
i mean everybody wants to get more
long-term customers bigger deals and
they all want to get
them uh in as short period of time as
possible right that's
kind of natural and logical and that's
why
this is important it's what every
business uh
lives on it certainly is and
i think it's it's almost everyone's
dream really to get there to land the
best clients possible
for the most revenue and obviously not
not spend months and months trying to
trying to get those deals to close right
yeah i mean um we're still in
kind of a time loop where uh we
we still a lot of companies go after
mqls and don't realize the importance of
educating people
of kind of looking at uh
the not only at the bottom of the funnel
but also looking at
the upside of the things and how
important it is
for actually getting more people
to the to the bottom of the funnel and
you know those kind of things
and i thought to be honest that we're
gonna
get over with this uh with this talking
about mqls vs sqls those kind of things
a few months ago while the copy started
but it didn't happen
ever and i'm not sure at this moment if
it's gonna happen
but i mean it's just the way things are
so let's try to educate the people that
are willing to understand and willing to
invest in uh
uh scaling their business yeah i mean
perhaps we can jump into mql's marketing
qualified leads and sales qualified
leads and
what the real difference is and what you
should focus on in a bit
um but before we get to that
i really want to talk i don't want to
get tactical i always want to talk about
some strategies
that you're seeing growth with both the
for your own company
and for your clients um in terms of how
we can actually do this
first and foremost how we can um bring
on board these juicy deals
what's actually working right now um and
then after that we can get into how we
can shoot on the cell cycle and all that
good stuff
yeah i mean let's let's get right into
it uh i mean
uh what we are doing for ourselves we
are doing for the clients as well so
basically we are
uh doing the things that we sell to sell
our services and i look at what most
agencies are doing and it's not that
and it's a pity because it looks like
they
they cannot do the things that they sell
uh
and that's what get actually the the
most of the marketing agencies in uh
they got them the bad voice
but anyway let's get into it so uh
as as a b2b company our focus is uh
is on linkedin because most of the our
target
audience is over there and on lending
what's
uh what's working is the personal
profiles they they run the show
it's not the company pages it was on
on facebook long time ago um
so we focus on uh
what's happening inside the company
first so
uh not only on linkedin but what's
happening inside the company what do i
want to say by that by uh having a good
culture
of values and employees that know and
respect those kind of things
and employees that know the value of the
personal branding so when we have that
we can create
sort of a content hub inside the company
and educate people
uh on those things on how to do the
copywriting
how to establish their personal brands
and then
only then when it's happening inside the
company we take it
on the linkedin so linkedin is just an
extension of what's happening inside the
company
and from the side of the personal
profiles we tend to create
the awareness and the brand by
focusing on building personal brands of
the people
from the company so it's not only the
the
the ceo not only marketing in sales but
uh as many people as possible and
we tend to give them the voice so
focusing on hammering over pain points
mix with personal stories uh
and then we go to educate people with
those kind of
that kind of content when they are
educated enough
they uh go to dams uh reach out to us
they go to the future section of the
profiles or they go to google they
google our name or the company name
we see that in the google search console
and if
that happens i mean we are already in
the bridge of building the brand so
basically we are building the awareness
and the company's brand
by building the personal brands of the
employees
uh that's one uh one step before we
before we continue
i've got let's let's break that down a
bit in the manager first and foremost
for people that perhaps aren't as clued
up on linkedin or don't
use it as much why is it important that
we focus on the personal profiles rather
than the
business profiles yeah because uh
personal profiles has the biggest reach
over there because
it's b2b as we are seeing it
uh right now and as it was like a couple
of years ago it was all
misty foggy uh not focused on emotions
not focused on feeling not focusing on
people and people are our biggest assets
in the tech base of the base companies
so we focus on the people uh our biggest
assets and that's how we actually get
get the traction that's how we get
clients customers depending on what we
are selling
and when because people still buy best
on emotions it doesn't matter if it's
like b2b or b2c
and linkedin is a place where
organically
we can reach millions of people in in a
year
without investing in advertising
exactly right okay and to break down the
the further points you got into nemanja
so
we talked about just like you said quite
rightly so that the personal profiles
have a heck of a lot of better reach
organic reach especially and when you
compare it to systems like paid
advertisements and things like that you
can reach
thousands of one post whereas to do the
same with paid media
you might spend thousands or hundreds at
least to have the same kind of effects a
really good point
um now moving this forward you're
talking about if you're a company
if you've if you've got several members
of staff
it's it's worth getting them all set up
with their personal brand
so if we're talking b2b then we're
probably gonna be talking linkedin
um so have you any experiences of doing
that in a manager because this is
something we've touched on before
um where we've talked about getting your
team all on linkedin
and we know that some companies have
regulations on what you can post what
you can't post
um how are you how are you guys seeing
it or what are you guys seeing that
that's actually working on that sense
um yeah and it's really important we get
all of our team members on linkedin or
is it
a waste time yeah it's
it's not important that we get all of
them we get
only those that uh that can be of use to
us
we don't need like every single
developer to write posts
but we need him to understand uh what we
are selling actually
we need to do internal marketing so we
can get people excited about what we do
and we
when we get them excited and they um
understand the value of the personal
branding not only for the company
but for themselves then it's a different
kind of story
and mistakes companies were making uh
are let's let's name a few first of all
there are a lot of companies that have
employees who are
older ones usually those are all the
companies 15 to 20 years old when
they have done marketing and sales a
different way
and uh basically
basically uh they they
didn't post ever on social media so they
don't understand it we need
to hire first people that understand it
that's why i mentioned
the culture and the values uh are
important
and also uh having
having that in mind it's important to do
internal marketing
to kind of uh if we can sell uh our
products and services to our employees
then how can we sell it to somebody else
and if we can do it and get them excited
they will do it also for us
that's basically the breakdown of
everything
yeah no i like that getting getting your
own staff excited about what you do
because why why are they going to post
content about it if they don't really
care
what the product or service does and the
outcomes and how that really helps your
customers right
cool man and then yeah you went on to to
talk about
hammering down on the pain points so
is that about in the content that we
produce or
how how do we know how do we put that
into play what's kind of tangible
example that you've you've utilized for
that
yeah it's it's just sharing uh sharing
your experience in working with things
uh actually it's
sharing the experience results case
studies
and the way you are solving specific
problems for your
for your clients or your customers
that's that's it just showcasing
everything
i mean we are transforming the profiles
of employees
into showcases basically
somebody asked you can you give me the
showcase what you're doing here's my
profile i'll share it every day i talk
every day about
the way we are solving specific problems
the way we are talking with clients with
customers
and it's not only important to get new
clients it's important as well
to retain the the ones that we already
have because
a lot of our clients are looking at what
we are posting on linkedin and they are
like
uh uh so you were talking about it can
we implement
this uh for our company as well can we
do
this thing can we do that thing they
also get ideas and get excited
about some things even before we uh
we get the ideas to them okay
and and when you're talking about
utilizing them are you talking about
including this the pain points we solve
for our product or our service within
our linkedin profile itself
are you talking about um putting out in
the content that we share
or is it both or is that more to it
it's it's both uh it's
it's both it's actually all kind of
content that we are
using i mentioned from the company side
let me explain it just get back to this
because there's a
there's a round from the company's
perspective on the company pages
linkedin uh
let's say we focus on
[Music]
main content pillars just like this one
like uh like a podcast
like a blog post so we practically go
two ways
first way is to establish us as
authorities so inviting
other authorities to to the podcast and
seeing
them with us it uh gets
our authority grow as well uh and
on the other hand inviting people who
are uh
our target accounts so let's say we are
targeting a person who is
uh i don't know cfo in a in a
fast growing company we invite him on
the podcast
we ask him about the
the buyer's journey uh to explain each
step of it
we ask him the way uh they hire and the
fire vendors
we ask him about the relationships how
everything is going we ask them
about how the decision-making process is
going how long does it takes
we ask them everything that we need to
sell them afterwards and by doing that
we uh understand
that we cannot just go two weeks after
the podcast and pitch them with
something
it's a long-term relationship that can
just start
easy yeah and it's it's a long
sales cycle so it's not the client that
we will do outreach afterwards and just
try to pitch them with
services or the product it's a start of
the building
a long-term relationship and when we
when we create the podcast like that
then we we share on youtube or at
workers platforms the
the main content pillar we send it to
them the recordings as well
then we we cut it into smaller pieces
we send that as well we post it on the
company pages and tag them basically
build the company page by
building a personal brands
of our ideal customers in that way
while we are doing that we are also from
the personal profiles we are adding more
people from the company
so basically more people relevant to us
uh can see the content and that's how we
start
building uh building the relationship
and
slowly like shortening jail cycle by
getting to know them and
uh establishing the relationship with
them
yeah yeah yeah really really good tip so
essentially we're talking about
hosting or starting some kind of podcast
or
interview series whereby you bring on
board your target account or your ideal
client idle customer
and you literally ask them questions
that you want to know
that's that's going to help you as an
organization to be able to sell to them
in the future
so in your case you're talking about how
they buy their journey
what they look for in a vendor all these
all these questions which is
almost like a discovery call really just
um
edging it more towards i guess then them
being able to record a discovery call
out of which you get a lot of content
which is
all related so you basically by by
sharing that
that content on the company page and on
personal profiles
basically you are uh talking about
covering
all points in the buyer's journey so you
are covering not
only the top of the funnel but you are
covering everything
and educating not only the people that
are over there but also some other
people
and that's uh kind of important and
where it goes now there's a there's a
catch
and uh the catch is that content needs
time to work
usually when the company hires uh a
marketing agency they expect them to
give results right away so let's say
like the sales cycle lasts for let's say
three months
uh they want to give to get results
tomorrow
and when they hire somebody in sales
they say you have three months to close
the first sale
uh so it's kind of not not okay
related to us like the marketing agency
but anyway
so how do we um bridge
bridge the gap we bridge the gap with
ads
because we need advertising to get
content to work faster
so uh what we do we focus on facebook
and instagram
uh for people to consume the content so
from that perspective we create
testimonials case studies uh
news like articles those kind of things
uh
that can be consumed in like three
minutes
we distribute them in the facebook feed
on instagram stories
to two target groups one is uh
the decision-making uh person and
the other the other one are actually the
people who are gonna
use the product or the services
so if we cannot get the decision making
uh maker to actually
uh look at it look at the video or
actually read the article then we can
have the second best
which are the people who can actually uh
consume
and use the the product or the services
to read it and then
go to affect the decision making from
from the bottom up
so we just need them to uh to react on a
channel level
then we see if the right people are
reacting
if they are then we're following on the
website are they reading the articles
are they watching the videos uh and if
they are
then we know that we just need to wait
uh
for as long as it takes for a
decision to be made inside the company
they will come back and we will see that
in the i don't know free trials or
scheduled calls or whatever it is the
the cta and if
that thing doesn't work in most cases it
works but we can go
additionally then when we know that
people are interested
in specific content in specific topics
specific case studies
then we can do maybe the the retargeting
as well
and get them back back over there
because we know specifically what they
are interested in
and who they are so to break that down a
little bit are we are we essentially
saying that you're
you're doing these podcasts or these
interviews we're we're putting together
the original let's say long-form piece
of content whether that's a video entry
or audio only
and then because that might not get the
full reach it needs through just putting
it out organically so for example for a
linkedin personal profile
you're then driving additional reach to
it by using things like um
facebook ads or instagram ads to
to drive to get more eyeballs on it
really through the through your your
target customers
and then from there they might go to
your website for example check more
content
and eventually we're trying to drive
them towards that all-important
conversion of requesting a demo or
requesting a consultation
but it's is it essentially looking to
speed up the process
from from how quickly this content can
take action is that right
yeah exactly uh like people forget that
uh
facebook and instagram aren't the
salesforce platforms
so we are actually going along with the
platform and distributing
the content we are not going uh to the
cold audience
and asking them to buy right away i mean
it's
not logical it's not gonna happen
nobody's buying that way they need to
get to know us no matter if we are
buying uh i don't know uh a hundred
dollars product or a thousand dollars
product
it's not gonna happen that way there
there is a decision to be make
especially in b2b
in the lord your sales cycle and more
expensive products
i mean in most cases all the companies
have already already
have a vendor in place they are using
some other tools
so we need to get uh them educated
about us who we are how are we different
than the others
uh and then there is a time that needs
to pass
that uh their contract uh
is done with other vendor so a lot of
a lot of things to consider over there
you know it's not just true we're gonna
put the advertising they're gonna come
and
and we're gonna sell them it's not how
it goes
okay so i mean the manager this this
might be a tough one and there might
this
you might say look it all depends on the
situation but
let's pretend we're putting all these
processes in play
and let's say our normal sales cycle i
don't know let's say we're selling a
product that's perhaps
50 to 100k and our typical sales cycle
is five to six months
if we were to put in price this process
into play that we've just
talked through how much realistically
would would that
sales cycle be cut down by if we were to
do what we've just chatted through
it all depends but it can be cut in half
from
what we are seeing it takes around two
and a half months
for for it to start to start working and
to start bringing
bringing results and one thing that we
didn't talk about
what was happening when you start
bringing results you know because
we don't have them like uh a hundred
mqls
we have let's say three we have three
so lower volume higher more quality
uh quality leads uh and when we have
three then we don't need 10 people in
sales we can have only
only one that's experienced and when we
have one that's experienced the
then the customer's experience
is better because if we have 10 then if
it's
obvious that we have one who have just
started to work
and doesn't know everything and maybe
the customer experience is not the best
so when we have the best one they will
close it and
we have more educated uh customers that
specifically said i want to talk with
sales
they specifically said that when they
said that then we're taking them to the
sales
and if they are educated and they want
to talk with sales
it's obvious the sales can close the
bigger deals
and the revenue will grow got it yeah
yeah i'm glad you mentioned that because
i got a bit excited
with the uh the sales shortening cycle
and
i'm glad i'm glad you you threw that in
there
so to hone in on that a bit further so
we're talking about
really really nurturing and educating
our ideal customer with the content we
put out with the interviews we put out
and then rather than just hounding or
generating as many sales qualified leads
as possible
um we actually want real quality so
people that have perhaps been following
us for a while
they know what our company's about they
know our processes they know
perhaps a bit more about us personally
and how we do things
so when they do come to us when they do
eventually take that action
and inquire with us to discuss a project
they are that much warmer
rather than just a lead we've kind of
pushed through the funnel that we've got
that we're having a conversation with
that might not really go anywhere is
that about right
yeah and there's one thing i i want to
say that
we often forget and not only in b2b but
also
b2c people are kind of going in two
directions
like going all on educating
people and or going the other way or
just trying to sell sell sell sell
so there has to be a middle of it so
at one point we need to have to say okay
we we gave you this kind of information
we gave you the case studies
we gave you uh we we showed you that we
are
authority in the field we show that we
know what we are doing
show you the results now it's your time
to come and buy
you know so we don't need
we actually mustn't forget those things
you gotta ask right um you gotta go with
it
how are you seeing results from that so
when it comes to ask are you
could you perhaps give us an example
namandra is that is that through the ads
you put out once you know someone's seen
x amount of contact you you put an ad
saying are you ready to get in touch or
are you doing that through perhaps the
post you put out on linkedin
or is it a mix of all the above yeah
look
uh we we always have uh
a solution ready for if somebody is
ready to buy so we gotta
make it out there we gotta have our
website ready
for conversions we gotta have our
linkedin or other social media profiles
optimized from conversions when somebody
wants to buy
and it's ready they need to see it they
don't need to go and look for it and
we need to constantly be there and there
there
needs to be a cta even if it's like
let's chat in comments that's also a cta
we don't need to go with
like the link to to go and uh
use the free trial but just let's chat
let her
let's have a conversation those kind of
things and
uh amongst the all the educational posts
sometimes we just need to say
okay this is the the results that we are
having
if you wanna go into that if you're
ready go ahead
and send us the
[Music]
send us just a message let's let's get
into it i mean just to
to mention uh until i had like 10 000
connections on linkedin i was sending uh
a welcome message to each one of my new
connections
so uh this is how i learn if my content
is okay this is how i got the feedback
because there are a lot of people that
don't engage over there in the field but
they are reading everything
and if you do that especially if you
don't have that much connections from
the start
this is how you will get you will get
the feedback and some of them
are already ready but if you don't
approach them they will never do the
first step
and this is this is all what happened to
me you know and i'm using kind of my
personal profile to try out things
and then i'm implementing that for the
clients as well
interesting so you're everyone that you
connect with on linkedin
you're dropping a little message or
you're actually asking them for feedback
on how they like your content or
yeah i was i was doing that nothing just
sending
a welcome message like welcome welcome
to
my community this is what i do in one
sentence
just giving them a link to the website
not salesy not anything if you want
to get more go ahead over there let's
say
i used to send them the link which is
like
how to um how to create your b2b content
machine something that's of value to
them
uh and i'm asking the the whole message
is about them
like i want to get to know you a little
bit better
and that's it i'm just starting the
conversation nothing else not trying to
sell
i'm generally the guy who likes to uh to
get to know people and learn more about
them and it's
it's seen in the content and that's
that's how i go um
uh and it's kind of different than
what other people are doing because a
lot of them
have hidden messages like trying to sell
but
trying to like shape it up to look nice
and good
yeah yeah i'm sure anyone who's been on
linkedin for more than five minutes has
probably had a dm trying to pitch them
so i think
yeah i mean happy birthday man
uh and then the next message is
yeah yeah how are you look at demo below
um yeah you've seen a few of those
that's for sure
um all right lemans i want to throw a
bit of a spanner in the works i know
we're coming up to time but
we've um we've covered some great great
points especially the the fact of
interviewing your ideal buyers your
ideal clients
and really asking the questions that you
want to know to then be able to start
relationships kick relationships off and
then get on the process of shortening
sales cycles for those juicier bigger
projects
and deals what if we don't like
podcasting what if we don't like
interviewing what can we do then
there are always a lot of a lot of other
things like when we start working with
companies
almost all of them have good content
which is forgotten
on the website i'm talking about written
content
they they uh created it for the seo
and they shared it maybe maybe once
their social media pages
and they have like 14 likes
which is their employees and maybe their
relatives and important people
may have seen the content and that's it
and it's a quality content
so we use that content to kind of give
it the tone of voice
and craft the posts for the people from
the company and actually show
the content uh in the feed and
that's also one of the ways that it can
be done
also the other ways are different kind
of content we can go
with the visuals we can go with with
some other stuff
but uh if if they don't want to get
like uh videos that's perfectly fine i
mean just
audio is always a good thing for
somebody who is
like let's say a little bit shy when it
comes to the looks
and everything because audiograms can be
really good
on linkedin people aren't watching
videos
just to watch videos just like they do
it on the youtube
they they actually read the videos they
read the transcriptions
and uh it's totally different than some
other things
and like if you compare the
all kinds of content that we have on
linkedin let's say text
photo um linkedin dex
videos usually videos are the ones that
people underestimate
and when we
look not the likes but when we look at
how many views the videos has then we're
talking about
let's say 300 and we have 10 likes and
it's
totally underestimated metric people
don't pay attention to
and uh i have seen not only for us but
for the clients that
a lot of people are coming up and uh
directly in their inbox uh coming up
with a proposal with a potential
cooperation
anything based on the videos that they
have watched because
in the video we can actually show the
way we smile
who are we as a personality like how is
our tone of voice
what's our accent you know those kind of
things they can get to know us and when
they do
usually it's that small thing that makes
the difference
yeah that's awesome that's something i'd
not thought about much so
essentially what was saying there is if
you don't want to do podcast
interviews or interview your ideal
client perhaps you haven't got time
perhaps
you just don't want to do that if you've
got old content
on your website so we're talking about
our blogs old articles maybe our videos
you can repurpose those
spice those up but give it your personal
brand edge give it that tone of voice
like you said so
it makes sense to post it on linkedin so
essentially we're talking about digging
out stuff you've already done
spending a little bit of time rejigging
it so it fits the fits the purpose in
this case linkedin
and there you go that you've got some
got some content to crack on
the main the main thing here is involve
your clients
and your customers in creating content
with you
that's that's the main thing that's how
you start the relationship with them
that's how you create better content
that's how you
uh optimize your content for
distribution even before you start
creating it
and there's also one thing that i i want
to say
and not that many people are saying it i
think
actually no one is recommending this but
we have tried it in
the last month and a half uh and it is
if you want to focus on getting more
people on the website from linkedin
and to kind of test the market or test
the product
or get more people to do the trial
sign up for them or whatever is the cta
share relevant links from your website
that also works
you won't get as many likes you want to
optimize for the reach
but if you are already active on
linkedin you have the active audience
you have the active engagement when you
when you share
links you know every couple of days you
will get people to the website
and you will increase the traffic and it
will be all relevant
people because you are connecting with
relevant people on on linkedin
and uh it works
people say that linkedin doesn't
actually
uh work if you add links which are not
in the comments
it works you just don't get as much
reach
and as likes as you will get if you
don't do it
but you you get relevant people
interested in specific topics to come to
your website
like it like yeah yeah so yeah i mean i
guess
like you say you won't get the reach
that you would typically from an organic
post but
it's making it easier if someone's
looking at the post to click straight
through because they don't have to trawl
through the comments section if there's
a lot of comments that i can just
literally click the link in the post and
go straight to the relevant page
exactly awesome there's been a lot of
gold today in the manager really
appreciate you sitting down with us
and sharing some some really actionable
strategies on how we can speed up
ourselves so i could get more deals in
and and leverage that from from linkedin
and various other content channels so
thanks very much for coming on
really enjoyed the chat um do tell us
more about how everyone can learn from
you
how they can connect with you and the
best way to get in touch
yeah first thanks thanks for inviting me
and thanks for the chat i really
enjoyed it as well uh even though you
are in uh
red and white which is like uh
the the club that i dislike the most
because we have like
parties that in red star parties are in
black and white red star is
red and white but uh
anyway so uh people can reach me
anywhere
uh on linkedin on twitter on facebook
we even have the facebook group called
funky marketing uh
around uh 25 000 people over there
but i mean linkedin is where i'm sharing
the
the most content they can find me over
there or they can just go
funkymarketing.net and find
a lot of things that we're doing so we
have um
b2b weekly podcast where we're marty
sanchez we're analyzing
uh the way b2b companies work and also
share a lot of gold
of how we are growing our companies we
have fun to marketing podcast
when we are interviewing authorities in
the field
and also share a lot of interviews with
uh with relevant people from the from
the
industry as well and i mean that's it
just google nemanjuku to funky marketing
and you will find me
good man and we will put all of those
links over in the show notes
at businessgrowth.marketing and i want
to thank you once again the manager
really enjoyed the chat dude
thank you one more time i enjoyed it as
well and thanks for
uh keeping me company while in kobe
isolation
no worries man if you enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe for business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast be it apple
spotify youtube or somewhere else we
interview business leaders each and
every week to provide actionable tips to
increase your
marketing results grow your business and
generate more sales
we'll catch you on the next episode
cheers